I have used it to ask very specific, targeted questions about encounter design, questions like: I have this encounter, can you think of how to apply Cypher's mechanics to it? And it's actually not…bad. It's given me a couple useful ideas for specific mechanics. It actually understands Cypher fairly well. But it's also very shallow; the mechanical suggestions it has given me have not been particularly novel.
I wouldn't use it to run a whole session, let along a campaign. I've found that it can deal with mechanics fine. I've occasionally followed its prompts to generate more creative things, just to see what it can do—it knows that I play tabletop RPGs, so often when I use it to research scientific or philosophical topics, it ends with a prompt like "Want me to write a short story about that?" and I've said yes a few times out of curiosity to see what it can produce, and I've been underwhelmed with the results. It is also subject to a lot of "cross pollination" across chats and will start to blend in disparate ideas into the same output, often resulting in gobbledygook or chaos. Very superficial and shallow "creativity", maybe a starting point, but not a substitute for doing the creative work yourself.
Besides, why would you want it to?

Last time I tried to buy something from their store, the payment confirmation page wouldn't load and I was unable to buy anything. So if they fix that, it'll be a big upgrade. Goodman Games had a better online store experience than Paizo, and that's saying something.

My D&D 3e and 3.5e books have sat vertically on a shelf for over 20 years and they're still all in near-mint condition, so I wouldn't worry about how you store them. They have also been moved into seven apartments and over 3,000 miles and are no worse for the wear.

On paper I've always thought that I like the tight balance of games like Pathfinder. But after playing Pathfinder for a while, I've come to feel that RPGs are fun when they have a bit of swinginess. The best moments in my 25 years of playing RPGs have occurred when someone pulled off an amazing crit, or rolled a natural 1 when they absolutely had to hit the enemy, or failed a save they had a 90% of passing. Those are the times when the game goes in an interesting, fun, memorable direction (even if it does occasionally lead to some cheap deaths).
Conversely, Pathfinder plays like a board game. And don't get me wrong, I love board games, too, but RPGs—even Pathfinder—rarely have enough depth to be an interesting board game, and so they just play out tediously and predictably. My Pathfinder group is so good at Pathfinder, we've mastered the system, and as a consequence, the game is really stale and unchallenging.
(I also have other problems with Pathfinder, like the fact that there is simply way too much shit to keep track of…but I digress.)

I got really bogged down with anxiety that I was making the wrong character choice. And I know, people will say that you can't make a "wrong" choice in RPGs, just make a character you want to play! But I've found that Pathfinder players are really, really into system mastery, and they will give you a hard time if you make a suboptimal character choice; justifying it with "I thought it would be fun" will not fly. I know that's really fun for some players, but it's not fun for me.

Absolutely agree. I was introduced to Numenera and The Strange 10 years ago, after 15 years of playing D&D 3/3.5e. I really liked it as a player, bought all the books, got Cypher when it came out. Numenera is an awesome setting; I enjoy exploring the world, and I think the rules work relatively well for Numenera. But they just don't translate as well to other genres. I've been running a Cypher campaign for almost a year and it was truly a mess at first. I think I have a better handle on how to run Cypher now and have kind of made it work, but every session I wish I had discovered Mothership or a similar system first.

I hear online that there are some roleplay-heavy groups that play Pathfinder, but I have yet to meet any in real life. My experience has been like yours: groups always focus on min/maxing and suboptimal choices are scrutinized. I played a Superstitious Barbarian recently, which I thought would be fun, but it quickly became not fun right from the get-go because everyone else in my party just whined about how it would affect spellcasting. And they're still whining.
If min/maxing and mechanics are your thing, it's a great system, but it's not really for me. My Pathfinder game is ending in June and while I love the group as people, I won't be sorry to see the game end.

Yeah, it is way too crunchy for me. I would've loved it 20 years ago, but now? No thanks. There are way too many fiddly things (conditions, damage over time, etc.) to track in combat. Way too many detailed rules for every aspect of play. And while the level progression is kind of neat, in practice, it means I have to erase half my character sheet every time I level up.
Plus the community really expects you to be a munchkin; my Pathfinder group scrutinizes every suboptimal decision a player makes. And I respect that some people like the game because of its focus on mechanics and min/maxing, but that's just not for me.
My Pathfinder game is ending in June and while I love the group, I won't be disappointed to leave Pathfinder behind.

Totally agree. I love the setting, but the game really is a strange combination of rules light with some incredibly fiddly, crunchy parts.
(Also, combat sucks to the point that I just try to run as little combat as possible, which is embraced by some groups and hated by others.)

Honestly, min/maxing and system mastery is a big part of the Pathfinder community. It's a fairly crunchy system that draws in the sort of players who really like finding ways to exploit the rules. Supposedly some groups are more focused on roleplaying, but I have yet to meet a PF2 player in real life who gives a shit about pesky, whimsical things like story. If that's not your thing, you probably won't see eye to eye with the Pathfinder players you meet.
I'm in a slightly similar boat right now: I don't care that much about min/maxing, but I put up with my Pathfinder friends because I really like our group and I like them as people well enough.

Came here to say Shinola. I have a Shinola, and I like it. I've gotten a few compliments on it from strangers, but I always feel like a dumbass when they ask what it is and I have to say "it's a Shinola".

Well, I've solved that by forgetting to give my players XP!
But yeah, I also think Numenera is a great setting with a subpar rules system. It was fun to discover it when it came out, after 10+ years of playing D&D, but better systems have come out since then.

Yeah, having played both Numenera and a Cypher campaign for a while, I think Numenera is a cool setting, and the game works okay with the setting, although the system feels very outdated at this point…but I don't think it works well when generalized to other settings. I wish I hadn't run my Cypher campaign using Cypher.
By dated, I mean that Numenera was a breath of fresh air when I discovered it 10+ years ago compared to D&D, but there has been a lot of evolution in the TTRPG space since then that I think makes Numenera/Cypher feel very rules-heavy and mechanical in undesirable ways. It's trying to split the difference between being very mechanical and being rules-lite, and it did it decently well for its time, but now it feels a bit clunky.
And cyphers are hard to work into a game outside of a fantasy or science fantasy setting (I know there are subtle cyphers but they feel like a hack on top of a system that is clearly designed with fantasy in mind).

Yeah, what makes it unsuitable for 2014 characters? I just made one a few weeks ago with 2014 elements; has something changed since then?

You don't really have to say much. I had a guy leave one of my games a few months ago. He simply said, "Hey everyone, I'm not going to be able to continue playing, but have fun!" We all wished him well and told him that if he ever changed his mind, he should reach out to us and re-join It wasn't a big deal for anyone, and I wasn't offended at all.

It might be unhealthy for some people, like adults worried about a child having an imagination.

I don't know if you necessarily need to "learn to enjoy" it, so much as you just have to accept it. I hate the character creation and leveling minigame, too, but most of my friends like it, so I just kind of have to go along with it, and focus on the other parts of the game I enjoy.
Or you can find a system that doesn't feature a character creation minigame, if that's an option for you.

You sure it wasn't the cock carousel?

Is it appeasement, or is it what they really believe? I've long suspected that tech executives are not nearly as liberal as their rank-and-file employees, and now they're free to embrace their beliefs.

I more or less stopped using FB around 2018, but I deactivated my account for good in 2020. I do feel a bit less connected—it was fun to exchange messages from time to time with old friends I barely talk to anymore—but I think I'm better off without it. And I've heard that Facebook has gone downhill in quality since I left 5 years ago.

Don't Kill a Bird With a Baseball is a playable TTRPG…but honestly, I'm not sure many people would immediately recognize it as such.

Well, there are rogue-like games where you have to start over again if you die, and some games (e.g., Diablo and XCOM) have hardcore or "ironman" modes in which you have to start over again when you die. Most tabletop RPGs at least allow you to pick up where you left off with a new character.

Plus, having good Encyclopedia and Conceptualization scores can mint XP.
I don't usually like to min/max in games like this, but having a constant stream of XP coming in is so much fun.

Yeah, I was laughing my ass off from the very first scene and immediately went all-in on Superstar Cop even before I knew about the copotypes. I was the shit—everyone else was the problem!

Yep. It sounds cool, but Cypher is one of the "gamiest" systems I've played, in the sense that you're rolling along, immersed in a story, and then bam! the mechanics grind the story to a halt and you go into a very intense "game mode" that for whatever reason is more obvious and mechanical than in other systems I've played.

I've played in a number of Numenera campaigns and have been running a long-lasting Cypher campaign, and…yeah, to be honest, combat does kind of suck. I have found the trick is to minimize combat, and luckily my players are into a game with less combat anyway, so that has worked, but…I'm not sold on the system overall anyway. In theory it's good, but in practice, it just hasn't worked for my groups (although I did have a great GM for one of the Numenera campaigns I played in many years ago). Maybe I'm not a great Cypher GM, though.
I do think that the Numenera setting is really cool.
Re: your nano: yeah, nanos are kind of OP in Numenera, to the point that honestly, there's almost no reason to play any other type. But nanos also practically have to take Onslaught, and Scan is so useful that it's practically a requirement too…but then you end up spamming Onslaught all combat. But Onslaught is so good that why wouldn't you, unless you can slip in a useful cypher on some turn?
Re: your focus: yeah, there are some foci (and descriptors) that are OP, and there are some that are just…useless. The useless ones often sound cool, but then they end up being useless, and there are foci that are clearly much better, to the point that you wonder why some foci even exist.

My Pathfinder GM has a set of simple rules about rules that I think works really well:
If you're disputing a GM's ruling and you have the rule in question handy, dispute it immediately.
If you don't have the rule handy but find that the GM erred after the game, bring it up to him and he'll rectify it as best he can next session.
Unless the GM erred in your favor, in which case he'll clarify the rule going forward but won't retroactively punish you. :-)
Don't correct another player if the correction would hurt them. Bring it up to the GM after the session and he'll clarify the rule going forward. (We fudge this one a bit because all of us like playing by the rules, but it's a nice policy to keep in mind with new groups.)
Do correct another player if their error hurts them immediately, and you have the rule handy.

I was playing in a Forbidden Lands group recently, and one of the guys started talking about how we should discuss what character we're creating so we don't overlap skills, except maybe a little where we want some backup, and we have a good spread of stats and classes. Finally one guy said, "Hey, if you all want to do that, that's fine, but I have to spend all day at work optimizing my output and being as efficient and productive as possible, and I don't want to do that in a game for fun, too," and I totally agree with him.

I've been running Mothership for a few groups for a while, and I totally agree. I love the community's creativity, and the sardonic tone of most adventures fits my humor well. And the system is almost exactly what I want a system to be…but I feel like my sessions always fall flat. Maybe I just don't know how to run the game well, but I feel like I need just a little more structure to run a satisfying game.
I also find the system to be a little too lethal. In theory that's a nice change of pace, but in practice, I've found my players—for multiple unrelated groups—just end up treating the game as a joke and not taking their characters seriously, which is fun, except they end up burning through characters with wild abandon, and then the game sometimes gets out of control.

Vut, it's a lorry driver thing.

I think the number of games about teenagers is a reflection of the fact that there is a strong YA influence in every bit of culture, from RPGs to video games to literature to movies. I suspect the swell in popularity started with Harry Potter and picked up steam with Twilight, The Hunger Games, and other urban fantasy, but pop culture also has a strong anime influence, which tends towards YA themes. Even middle-aged adults engage heavily with YA media, so I doubt it's going to wane anytime soon.

I've been playing various fantasy RPGs for almost 25 years and at this point I'm sick of them. Can't we tell other stories than just those of fantastical superheroes? Haven't we told their tales enough?

My hot take is that players like summoners because summoners are broken and OP in most tabletop games, or because playing a summoner essentially allows them to play multiple characters (at least in combat).

Having both played in and run multiple Numenera and Cypher games, I do agree with your broader points. Numenera is a fascinating setting, but it is at once evocative and sparse: it has excellent flavor, but it's almost too open, with too much for a GM to fill in, and it can be overwhelming to paint in the empty spots. I've also had the experience that every task becomes a negotiation that immediately takes everyone out of the game; you really need players that lean into the narrative aspect, but most RPG players want a game to be a game.
There are a couple specific points I am a bit curious about, though.
The system is fundamentally about using tools, skills, cyphers, and other aids to lower the difficulty of tasks. Generally I've found it allows for a lot of open-ended creativity (too much, I've found—hence why every task becomes a negotiation), and there's so little written on the character sheet that I've generally not found players to be bound by their sheets.
True. Some may argue, but I got this vibe as well. Cyphers are cool, but they're also a little "lol random".
I'm a little surprised by this, because I found nanos to be strong…well, everywhere, to the point that I'm not even sure why anyone would pick anything but a nano (except for flavor). Glaive is supposedly the combatant, but it's so overshadowed by the nano in every way that there's virtually no mechanical reason to pick a glaive.
(Did your nanos take Onslaught? It's such a strong offensive ability that it's practically required for nanos, and I can see how they'd be ineffective in combat without it. Scan is basically a requirement as well.)
Generally, though, I have similar feelings about Numenera: great setting, and theoretically a really fun system, but in practice I just haven't been able to make it work to my satisfaction.

Although someone linked an article in another comment about his parents' "sexual indecency" charge, so it is possible that Jarrett unfortunately had a bad home situation and finally decided to run away. But I imagine he'd take some money and an ID if he did…

I thought the same thing: there's an off-chance he had already had plans to meet someone, and when he found out he couldn't drive to meet them, he realized he had to haul ass to get there on foot. Of course, if he hadn't have been grounded, what did he plan to do with the car?
I hate to say it, but my bet would be suicide. :-(

I still remember my French instructor trying desperately to ask us what we were all doing for Thanksgiving.
(Also when she tried to explain that she'd injured her ankle and we thought she had injured her uncle, but I digress.)

I ran a campaign earlier this year for a while, although ultimately it fell apart. Overall I like the system, but it has its downsides. I found my players weren't that into it, though.
It went…okay. I enjoyed running it, and a few of the players really liked it, but others weren't really into it. We used the "lifepath" method of character generation, and my players really liked that—even though it takes a lot of time—but a few were less enthusiastic about the game itself.
Low-magic fantasy, partly because I didn't find a satisfactory way to feature magic in the system. There are various methods out there, Tales of Xadia being one that is particularly well developed, but none of them really grabbed me.
Distinctions (of course), affiliations, skills with specialties, and signature assets.
Affiliations were a great choice. My game had a bit of political intrigue, and affiliations added to that atmosphere.
I would recommend having skills. It made the character creation a lot more time consuming (more options). If I had to do it again, I think roles are a much better choice. They can kind of mimic classes and allow players to "multiclass" without the complication of individual skill selection. If you're coming from other games, you're probably going to be drawn to using skills, but take my advice and consider roles instead.
Signature assets are…cool, but they might be a bit freeform for many players. Choose this option with caution (they do make characters really unique, though).
Social encounters, certainly. Character creation was a lot of fun. We didn't do a lot of combat; I have a suspicion combat would not be satisfying to my players in Cortex, but it never came up in practice anyway.
I did not use the trauma rules, but if you are going to feature combat, I think the trauma rules are really important. I'd probably implement those if I played my game again.
Cortex is really a gaming toolkit, not a game itself, so you have to do a lot of legwork to set up a game (there aren't a lot of third-party settings, either). And that can be a lot of work. I think one of the drawbacks of the system is that the Cortex Prime rulebook presents a ton of interesting options, but it doesn't provide a lot of guidance on how all of those options fit together, so you have to figure out yourself what works best for your game. That means that you're probably going to feel like you're playtesting your game for a while, and I didn't particularly like that. But on the other hand, the system does allow you to tailor a game almost exactly to your liking.
The Cortex Prime Discord channel has a lot of friendly, helpful people, too. Unfortunately, I didn't find a lot of guidance there on the best assembly of options for my game, because everyone had their own opinion on what worked best!
All that's to say that you're kind of on your own as far as actually designing your game goes.
Now, the highlights: Cortex Prime does drama and social encounters really well, so if you want a game that features those over combat, I think it's a great choice.
I listed some above, but I'll repeat them here for brevity:
Consider roles over skills. It makes character creation a lot simpler.
Fewer trait sets are better. There are tons of options in the book, but try to find a minimal set that distills the essence of your game the best. More does not equal better in this case!
The lifepath method of character creation is hella fun, one of the best RPG experiences I have ever had—but it's very time consuming. Budget a lot of time for it—it takes longer than you think! Also, if you have creative players, they will start bending the lifepath rules a lot. Don't stop their fun, but try to keep them in line—otherwise it can get out of control.
If your game is going to feature combat, use the trauma rules.
Signature assets really make characters unique—but it's an additional trait set, so include this in your game wisely.

What games did you gravitate to after Numenera?

I've been running a Cypher campaign for a while and I've had this issue, too. The game is humming along and then bam! players have to roll for a task and it becomes a slog of negotiating to come up with cheesy ways to lower the task difficulty, then spending some points to lower it more while subtracting edge from the cost… In practice, the system bounces hard from narrative to entirely mechanical.

Well, the marketing is another quibble I have with the system. In my opinion, Cypher is pretty clearly an OSR-ish game: it's medium crunch with a focus on exploration and gear (mainly in the form of cyphers). But the current RPG zeitgeist is narrative games, and Monte Cook Games seems to be chasing that fad, even though Cypher isn't really a narrative-heavy game. I can understand why they do that from a business perspective, I guess, but Cypher isn't a great analog to Fate or PbtA, in my opinion.

Well, rolling dice is cool. But that's probably not enough to sell you on them.
There are some dice pool mechanics that make sense from a statistics standpoint. 3d6 gives a nicer bell curve than a single d20, so you have more reliability in your rolls (and can build a character around that). In essence, more dice = less variability. Of course, at a certain point, that becomes unwieldy, and furthermore, RPGs are more fun when you have some variability.
There are some dice pool mechanics, like Cortex, where you mix dice of different sizes, which can allow for some cool mechanics (Cortex has effect dice which allow for some neat things), although I haven't done a rigorous analysis to see how that affects rolls from a statistical standpoint, although I imagine simpler systems can produce similar statistical outcomes. Maybe someone from /r/TheyDidTheMath can help me out.
Then you have systems like Forbidden Lands (and I think other Free League games, although I'm only familiar with Forbidden Lands) where you have a huge handful of dice, and so you need a lot of them, in different colors, and while the mechanism is a bit unwieldy, it does have some cool interactions with the mechanics of the game. And it's also fun to roll a handful of many-colored dice. (It does lose its lustre after a little while, though.)
I think there are great reasons to prefer a system like the first I described (e.g., 3d6 vs. d20). I can understand why you might not be sold on the other, more "gimmicky" systems, but they really can be a lot of fun and enable some interesting mechanics, regardless of the underlying statistical properties.

I have been running a Cypher campaign for a while and I have mixed feelings about it. Some of those are due to personal preferences or group preferences and not really a critique of the system itself, but I have some issues with the mechanics. I'll get the issues related to preferences out of the way first; they might be interesting to discuss but they're not really relevant to any criticism of the mechanics.
Theoretically I like the character creation system of Cypher, but in practice, it doesn't jive with my personal tastes. I don't really like playing "superheroes"; I like grittier, down to earth characters (more Mothership, less D&D). Cypher characters are the epitome of unique superheroes: they are powerful, and each has a focus that is supposed to be unique within the group. Just not the type of game I like to run right now.
Also, I forget to give out GM intrusions a lot. The system doesn't work well without them. That's on me, but it is another thing I have to remember.
The core mechanic of Cypher hinges on using skills, tools, and attribute points to lower the difficulty of tasks. Turns out my group is a bunch of rules lawyers, and almost every task becomes a negotiation over whether a tool or a skill could be used for some unintended purpose to lower the task difficulty. As a GM, it gets tiring after a while, even if it is all in good fun. This is not an indictment of the system per se, but much like Fate, the system only really works if the players get out of their rules-oriented mindset and into a narrative mindset. My players insisted they like a fiction-forward game, but it turns out they were wrong.
Cyphers: Cyphers are the core of the game, but they only really work well in Numenera. They don't translate to other settings that well—but you have to have them because they're the crux of the game. Cypher introduces "subtle cyphers" which I have found to just be a half-baked solution to the problem.
Skills: The skill system sucks. It basically becomes "take the least restrictive skill your GM will let you take", which is fine if your players are focused on the narrative, as noted above, but not if they're rules lawyers. Also, there's no singular, definitive list of skills, but I have found that players are lost without a skill list (again, might be an issue with my players), so GMs often have to generate one…which means they just use the example in the rulebook, anyway.
Foci: Some are just clearly better than others, mechanically…and if your players are rules lawyers, they will pepper you with questions about why certain foci even exist. Again, if your players are fiction-forward, that's not an issue, but I find that despite Internet memes to the contrary, most RPG players still have a gamist perspective. I also find that even from a fictional perspective, foci are often very restrictive, and it's hard to make the type of character I want (also, personal preference again, but I'm not into superheroes).
Despite a few flaws, I still think the system is okay, and it was pretty good back in 2015, when I started with Numenera and The Strange…but I think there are better systems out there nowadays.
Anyway, those are a few of my thoughts off the top of my head. Maybe more will come to me later.
I should add that I think Numenera is a really cool setting and its rules work fairly well for its setting. I don't think they translate to a generic game that well.

How much do I want them to read? At least all of the parts covering game rules and mechanics (i.e., I don't care if they don't want to read lore and stuff).
How much do I expect them to read? These days, nothing at all.

This might appeal to players coming from EVE Online.

Thank you for saying this. I have a group that sometimes has "shopping days", and I find those sessions to be dreadfully dull.
On the other hand, I have another group in which the GM just says, "Send me a list of items you want to buy in Discord and I'll let you know if those items are available before next session," and that's a much better way of handling it.

Legend starring Tom Cruise is one of my favorite movies in this vein. Really dark, weird, creepy fantasy movie directed by Ridley Scott.

Yeah, I think this one wins the thread.

Yes! I went to a Stephenson talk a month or so ago for the release of Polostan, and he actually remarked on the very question you ask. The answer is yes: polo used to be very common as it was more or less a training sport for cavalry troops, so any nation that had cavalry had a well-developed polo scene as well. The Soviet Union of the 1930s still had a strong cavalry force, thus, a lot of polo.
Through his research on polo, he then found out that there were entire ranches devoted to breeding and raising polo ponies in the western US during the period in question, another idea he found interesting enough to incorporate into the book.
He starts to talk about this at 8:15 in the talk and ends around 11:15 (originally posted here).
To answer another question that you might be asking: I don't know why he came to do tons of research on polo. I think it was one of those classic Stephenson things where he heard an interesting fact about polo and then went down a rabbit hole.

Wut, it's a lorry driver thing.

My French instructor told our class, "You can say comme ci, comme ça, too. No one in France actually says that, but Americans think we do, and it's cute when Americans say it, so you should, too," with a broad grin. So take that advice for what you will.

Resist the urge to throw everything away and start over. I have the same tendency, and I've recognized it's just my perfectionism creeping in. You're never going to run a perfect campaign, and if you let perfectionism take over, you'll just constantly throw out everything and start over again. Instead, just try to improve going forward.
Besides, learning to run a good campaign takes practice more than anything, so your first several times will be far from perfect.

Oh my God, no. Designers, don't listen to this! The trend towards A5 or 6×9 books is a breath of fresh air. So much easier to transport and flip through! :-)

That chair killed me in my first playthrough. I honestly thought it meant Evrart was some early-game über-boss so I went and did a bunch of other stuff (after reloading) before I confronted him.

I believe the entire team arrived shortly before Day 1. They arrived in Martinaise, then Harry had a breakdown, he dismissed the team, then all the other pre-game stuff happened: going on a bender, showing off his gun, crashing his car, becoming Tequila Sunrise.

Certainly not the jacket. You know the one.

The Bee Gees, obviously.

Watch out, Cuno, the OP’s trying to fiddle you! He’s putting his hands on you! Help! OP’s got Cuno!

Deadline might sort of be like that, but I haven’t had a chance to play it since it just got backed.

Yeah, no shit it looks like a penis, it’s called the astronomical— Oh, clock. Clock.

Honestly, I think the Ultraliberal track is hilariously fun. I’m like a walking LinkedIn post!

Okay, well, that’s just racist.

Sorry, I realize my comment may have been misconstrued, especially if you haven't played the game before.
I'm not saying you're boring. There is a "boring cop" archetype in the game that unlocks if you take the most boring dialogue options, and is actually a little funny if you really lean hard into being as boring as possible.

Kind of like how Contact Mike is an example of the benefits of hyperfixating on one goal.

I really like Shivers because it adds great tone to the game, but now that I’ve experienced it, I tend to turn it down because it pops up so much, and it usually seems to be superfluous or irrelevant. Totally worth doing at least one playthrough with a high Shivers score, though (and of course if you just dig the vibe).

Encyclopedia also gives you some really great lore at various points (there might be other ways to get it, but a high Encyclopedia is an easy way). It’s one of my favorite skills, even though it’s a little more boring than other skills in the way it affects dialogue, etc.

Regardless of your genuine political leanings, the game is a lot more fun when you embrace the extremes.
Even if the extreme is being a boring cop. If you want to be boring, be as boring as possible!

They like pulling in inexperienced directors. Experienced directors don’t follow orders from corporate; inexperienced directors are just happy to be there.

A while back I realized that there hasn’t been a good Star Wars story since 1983. Okay, sure, some of the video games were fun, some of the 90s books were okay (although most of them sucked), and I’m told that The Mandalorian is great, but Star Wars is mostly trash. I had such warm nostalgia for it that I even worked for Lucasfilm for a while, but I left after Solo, and shortly after that I started ignoring Star Wars. I’ve come to terms with the fact that Star Wars is just three great movies and that’s enough for me.

But is it?

Now you just have to acquire that blue spirit, bratan!

They could, but it's just not an experience I'm interested in. If we're having a computer mediate, then playing a good co-op video game is a much better overall experience, in my opinion.
Truth be told, at this point, I feel like TTRPGs are a bit of an anachronism. In terms of sheer immersion or interactivity, they've been and continue to be supplanted by newer forms of entertainment. The reason I continue to play them are a sense of nostalgia; a belief that it is beneficial to sometimes engage in a slower, more meditative form of entertainment; social connections and interaction; and the potential for creativity and artistic expression. I think that an AI GM undermines or negates all but the second reason.
If an AI GM works for you, then that's great, but it's not the experience I want from a tabletop game.

This really can't be overstated. You'd go into restaurants and the first thing the hostess would ask was "smoking or non-"? But of course it didn't really matter because the smoke blew everywhere anyway. I still remember when my local mall banned smoking (probably around 1991 or 1992) because my dad, a nonsmoker, was elated—he could finally stroll around the mall!
Houses, too. It was not at all uncommon to walk into someone's house and notice that it reeked of smoke, with ashtrays everywhere—especially older people's homes.

Assuming that the AI is actually good enough to act as a DM (which they aren’t right now)…
The reason I play tabletop RPGs is to hang out with other humans—preferably in person, but I’ll play with old friends over Discord if necessary. If a computer is going to be running a game, I’ll just play a video game—there’s a plethora of great single player and co-op video games out there.

Yeah, the game is very much a railroad. I accept it because as much as this is a cliché, the fun of the game really is the journey and the discovery of the world; in the end, the main story is a fairly straightforward murder mystery, but the journey to the story’s conclusion has a ton of dips, turns, and twists, so I’m okay with that.
You’re right about the white checks not disappearing, but it’s not a game-breaking issue.

Everything in this thread is cool! The image is cool, the text is cool, and you are cool, OP.

That’s an excellent tie, bratan!

Again? I can’t believe this shit!

I like “Formicapunk”, aka “cassette futurism”, since I find that level of technology is high enough to tell relatable stories, but not so high-tech to get in the way; plus it’s a level of technology I find interesting.
As a Disco Elysium fan, I also like the aesthetic of its world, which I have heard described as “discopunk”.

Sometimes called “Formicapunk”, although I prefer “cassette futurism” as well. It’s my favorite aesthetic, too.

I’ve done a few playthroughs and the game is so much less fun without Inland Empire. Also, you gotta wear the Horrific Tie, no matter what other clothing you find.
My favorite skills are Encyclopedia, for the facts it gives you about the world; Inland Empire, for the vibe; and Drama, for the absolutely ridiculous suggestions and options it gives you.

The possible dialog options are also amazing.

I love no-frills Kickstarters. I’ve refrained from backing a few Kickstarters because the physical book tier came with a bunch of crap that I’d end up throwing out or that would end up taking up space in the back of a closet. At the very least, Kickstarters should have a tier that is just the physical book.

Why would you put a binoclard up on your whiteboard?

I was, but I didn’t see this thread until I got home.

First time I think I went 4/4/2/2 and died sitting in Evrart’s uncomfortable chair.

But is it?

The end of the quest involving the husband of the middle class wife. In a game that generally is absurd, it’s just too real. That said, you can call me sick and twisted, but like most things in this game, if you break the news as ineptly as possible, it’s at least a little funny, in a very dark way.

Yeah, I thought it was implied that that there was something at least slightly sinister about the so-called youth center, like maybe it wasn't really a youth center, or there was some other reason that Evrart wanted to displace the current residents.

Yeah, the reason why Disco Elysium is so great is it doesn't give anyone a free pass and really makes you examine your own beliefs. If you miss the nuance, you've missed the point of the game. Even outside of politics, it's a game made by artists that pokes fun at pretentious artists—as well as snobby art critics. It can't even stop itself from making fun of tabletop RPG designers who lack project management skills. The only person who is presented as unequivocally wholesome is the girl who makes novelty RPG dice.

Yep. A friend of mine was an assistant DA in Denver, and he used to talk about the absurd number of people who would just leave guns in plain view in the center console of their vehicles. A lot of vehicle break-ins were motivated by gun theft.
Something something responsible gun owners…

I agree. I’ve played D&D for almost 25 years and I’m tired of the same fantastic hero stories of fighting some great evil. I’ve started to like smaller-scale stories of relatively normal people going on relatively small adventures, which is why I’ve been gravitating towards Old School Essentials (where characters have only a handful of abilities and get them all at first level) and Mothership (where characters have no special abilities at all).

Ah, yes, she was also involved in a previous incident with a Jewish colleague.

It’s in San Mateo County, but nearer to San Bruno. It’s easily accessible to San Francisco by light rail or car, though.

And almost every rule has four results you'll have to know.
Don't get me wrong, I like Pathfinder's graduated success feature, but it does expand the space of rules and outcomes you have to keep in your head.

What a strange thing to worry about! I hope my opinions on the game have not kept you up at night. :-)
But why is it wrong to call it complicated?

Well, I mean, more options do lead to more complexity, by their nature. A game with no options would not be very complex (and also not that much fun).
I'm curious how you can say there's nothing complicated about Pathfinder. The original Pathfinder 2e player's guide is 638 pages, and I am skeptical it would take 628 pages to describe a simple game.

Pathfinder has clearer and more specific rules, but that's a source of its complication: there are lots of rules to know. Even social skills and actions have very specific rules. Moreover, because Pathfinder uses graduated success/failure, you potentially have to know four possible outcomes for each action or spell: critical success, success, failure, and critical failure. This is a cool mechanic, but it means you frequently have to look up the details for an action. If it's an action or spell you use a lot, you'll probably memorize it quickly, but there's always a few times a session where someone uses a rarely-used action and no one can quite remember what happens on a critical failure—if anything happens at all, since not everything has a critical success/failure result.
Similarly, there are lots of conditions with very specific rules. And that's great in the sense that there's little ambiguity in how to apply the condition, but conditions occur frequently, and they can be a lot to track. Especially when you're dealing with the interactions between conditions, and especially when you have unusual combinations of conditions. For example, in a recent game, my character was sickened, underwater, so I had to track how much air she had remaining, and apply the sickened rules, which also meant taking into account the fact that you can't retch underwater (or maybe you can, but with some sort of penalty—see, I can't even remember, even now). And our spellcasters had to know that they can't cast spells with verbal components underwater, lest they immediately expend all of their air. Not a problem if you often fight underwater, but we don't, so it was a bunch of rules we had to quickly look up.
So sure, if you boil the core mechanics down to "just apply a +1 mod here and there" then yeah, I guess it's simple, but that's like saying that D&D is just a matter of "roll a d20 and apply advantage/disadvantage", which is eliding a ton of rules. And in games like Pathfinder and D&D, every class is essentially its own set of rules, every spell is its own set of rules, every condition is its own set of rules, every item is its own set of rules… There's a fair amount to know, some of which you will certainly memorize after a while, but some of which is used only rarely and thus needs to be looked up.
That's why I don't think it's inaccurate to describe Pathfinder as "complicated".

Vancian magic is the system used in OG D&D. Spells have levels, mages have a certain number of spells per spell level that they can cast per day, and the mage prepares the spells they want to cast at the beginning of the day. They prepare spells by memorizing them, and “forget” them after casting.
It’s called Vancian magic because it’s based on the system of magic in a series of fantasy stories by the writer Jack Vance. In Vance’s world, a mage’s mind could only hold so many spells, and more powerful spells required more “space”.

I think it’s one of the most popular systems outside of D&D, but D&D has such an outsized share of players that even a second or third most popular system isn’t that popular in comparison.
That said, one reason might be the fact that it is very complicated. I have played in a Pathfinder game for some time, but anecdotally, these days, when looking for alternatives to D&D, I gravitate to systems that are less complicated, not more complicated.

I have two types of technology upgrades available for my exosuit: items listed as protection units, and items listed as protection upgrades. The ones listed as upgrades have text that generally says something like "an almost total rework of the  Protection, this upgrade brings unparalleled improvements to  Shielding and  Protection", whereas the upgrade units give a percentage of resistance.
Should I install both, or do I just need to install one or the other? For example:
I have a "High-Energy Bio-Integrity Unit" which is a protection upgrade, and I can build a "Radiation Reflector" which is a protection unit. Should I install both?
I have a "Specialist De-Toxifier" and I can build a "Toxin Suppressor". Should I install both?
I have a "Carbon Sublimation Pump" and I can build a "Coolant Network". Should I install both?
I have a "Nitroged-Based Thermal Stabilizer" and I can build a "Thermic Layer". Should I install both?
And then for something similar but a little different:
I have a "Deep Water Depth Protection" which says it is an "almost total rework of the Aeration Membrance", and I can also build an Aeration Membrane. Will crafting and installing an Aeration Membrane bring any extra benefits?

I have Mothership 1e. I am thinking of picking up an adventure, Gradient Descent, but it warns that it was published for Mothership 0e. How hard is it to adapt an adventure intended for 0e to 1e?

I have a question about abilities that can be used offensively.
In the Cypher System Rulebook, p. 215, it says
Consider an ability like stasis:
and Gravity Cleave:
Is the intention that you pay the cost and make an attack roll, or do you automatically hit since you had to pay a cost to make the attack?

Does anyone have suggests for the creation of magic users in a low-magic setting? I am working on a setting where magic is present, but not common, and perhaps even viewed with enough suspicion that magical practitioners don't advertise the fact that they can use it (think more like Game of Thrones than D&D). Not every character will wield magic; in fact, most won't. My idea is to model magic using Abilities (p 54 in the Game Handbook), but if so, I'm not sure how to introduce them in the character creation process. I figured I could group them in with specialties and signature assets, i.e., a character could spend a point on a speciality or a signature asset or an ability. However, on p. 76 on the Handbook, when it decribes the Pathways method of character creation, it suggests that adding abilities should be its own thing. Would grouping ability selection with specialties and signature assets be too unbalanced, or does that make sense for this low-magic setting? Or is there a better way to handle magic?

There are a number of police vehicles and the block is roped off.

On p. 120 of Numenera Discover, the climbing rules say:
The rules reference movement in difficult terrain as described on p. 117:
The climbing rules also include a table of sample difficulties given various surfaces:
| Difficulty | Surface                              |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------ |
| 2          | Surface with lots of handholds       |
| 3          | Stone wall or similar surface        |
| 4          | Crumbling or slippery surface        |
| 5          | Smooth stone wall or similar surface |
| 6          | Metal wall or similar surface        |
| 8          | Smooth, horizontal surface           |
| 10         | Glass wall or similar surface        |
I'm confused what the rules mean when they say
and have a few related questions:
Does that mean that the task difficulty is hindered, i.e., when the table says that a surface with a lot of handholds is difficult 2, it is really difficulty 3? (In which case, why not just adjust the table to take hindrance into account?)
Does that mean that the move roll, which can be a difficulty task of 0 (if moving a short distance) or a Speed task difficulty of 4 (if moving a long distance) is hindered, and the player must also make a roll of the difficulty shown in the table to climb (i.e., two rolls)?
If #2 is the case, I imagine that move rolls only apply inside of combat (or a similar encounter), so in other cases, such as simply having to climb a cliff, would the player then only make a single climb check to climb as much as they want or need to?

[removed]

I am using the Carrot weather complication with the X-Large watch face, and it looks like this, with the temperature in the center of the gauge and the weather conditions as a small icon on the bottom. However, I also use the complication with the Infograph face, where in a previous iteration of the application, I reversed the display of the temperature and condition labels, so that the temperature is in small text at the bottom of the gauge, and the condition is shown larger, in the center of the gauge, as shown here. This is identical to what is shown in the preview for the complication X-Large on the X-Large face.
Is there a way to swap the temperature text and condition icon on the X-Large face, so that the condition is shown as a large icon in the center and the temperature is a smaller text label at the bottom of the gauge (as shown in the preview)?

French nouns (almost?) always take an article of some sort, so why do you say « Parlez-vous français ? » or « Je parle français » instead of « Parlez-vous le français ? » or « Je parle le français » ?

I have a gem (available on RubyGems) that relies on another gem. That dependent gem has a bug which I fixed recently. Unfortunately, that dependent gem is pretty much dead; it hasn't seen an update in years, and the owner isn't active on GitHub anymore at all, let alone making commits to this gem, so I don't expect my patch will get accepted—certainly not any time soon.
In light of that, what's the best way to handle the patched version of this dependent gem? Do I fork it and upload a new gem (with a new name) to RubyGems, and depend on that? Do I package my fixed version with my own gem somehow?

At some point or another, I bought some albums on iTunes. In some cases, I've also ripped these CDs and imported them into iTunes. In older versions of iOS, I could hide purchased music from the Music app, but now that purchased music shows up, leading to duplicates like this. Is there a way to hide purchased music in iOS 10?

I've been searching for a simple, straightforward way to write TCP servers in Clojure. Obviously this either involves some multithreaded or async programming, but I can't really figure out what the "state of the art" in Clojure programming is. Most resources I've found either deal specifically with HTTP or web sockets, whereas I'm looking for a more general approach. (The server I need to write does not speak HTTP specifically.)
I found what looks to be a fairly easy way to write multithreaded network servers in Clojure using clojure.contrib.server-socket...but that library has been deprecated. The note at the top of the docs says that it has been moved out of clojure.contrib, but I can't find where. I found a separate library for it, but that library hasn't seen an update in 5 years, which makes me think it's now defunct and not the "right" way to do things. However, the API is pleasantly simple and I'd like to find something similar.
What's the "right" way to write TCP networking clients in Clojure these days?

Two of Fender's current Mustang models are the "'65 Mustang" and the "Classic Series '65 Mustang". What are the differences between these two models? The most I could discover from the specs on Fender's website are that the '65 Mustang has a different finish than the Classic Series '65 Mustang, and the '65 Mustang is described as having "Vintage-Style Single Coil Mustang" pickups, whereas the Classic Series '65 Mustang has "Single Coil Mustang" pickups. Neither of these seem to be huge differences; are there other differences that are not obvious from the website's description?

I normally play bass, but I dabble with guitar sometimes. I also live in a small apartment, and since I often play late at night and I like my upstairs neighbors, I practice using headphones. I have a nice setup for bass that I've really come to enjoy. I plug my bass into an MXR Bass Preamp pedal, and that runs into a Behringer MA400 headphone amp. I use the preamp pedal for its tone-shaping capabilities (it has a 3-band EQ with sweepable mids); otherwise, it's nothing fancy (no distortion channel or anything like that). The MA400 has both an XLR and quarter-inch input, and I use the XLR out on the preamp pedal to run into the headphone amp, so I can also plug an MP3 player into the headphone output if I want to practice along with something.
I like the setup, but I haven't really found anything comparable for guitar. I've found DI boxes for guitar, but they generally don't seem to have a 3-band EQ, which I'd like to have (the MA400 only has volume controls). It looks like maybe there isn't really anything like the MXR Bass Preamp for guitar? Maybe the Bass Preamp would work fine with a guitar, too? Or maybe guitarists generally use something else? What would be a good setup for practicing using headphones (that would hopefully utilize my existing headphone amp)?
